Worrying doesn’t help us.
There is no need, really,
to worry about what could happen.
Even if it happens, let Jehovah show
how he can handle the situation.
He can actually do it in ways
you could never expect.
We are Juuso and Pauliina Halme.
We loved our assignment
in the Finland branch.
We had wonderful friends.
Our families, they were very close.
We had time to be with them often.
In 2014, we got the Yearbook
and that had an account of Sierra Leone.
And I was reading that account,
and I remember saying
a couple of times to Pauliina,
“This would be a tough place.”
After coming back from Gilead,
I couldn’t believe it;
we got a letter saying
that we had been reassigned
to Sierra Leone branch.
And it was a huge change for us.
Then what we did
is we Googled Sierra Leone
and what we saw was only about a civil war
that took place years ago.
An Ebola outbreak
was starting in West Africa.
Some of our relatives
were worried about that.
That was our impression,
first impression, about the country.
We were terrified, and we couldn’t sleep.
We just prayed the whole night.
And really, with the reassignment,
our greatest fear was my father.
He had been terminally ill
for about two years,
and we knew that at some point
it would get worse.
He would need more help
and also Juuso’s mother.
So were we able to travel back to Finland?
It’s so expensive,
and we didn’t have savings.
Although we had all those fears,
after praying about it a lot,
we just realized
that we could not say no.
And we realized
that this assignment was from Jehovah.
Let’s go there.
Let’s get to work.
Let’s give our best to it.
Then actually in three months,
our greatest fear came true.
It really happened
that Juuso’s mom
called us and she told us
that Juuso’s father’s situation had changed.
So we immediately started to check flights.
And then the next call was
that he had passed away.
We were able to get flights, fly back home,
support my mother,
and help with the funeral.
We were so happy
when we finally got back to Sierra Leone.
And now we thought that we could focus
on our assignment and on our work at Bethel.
Then one day, we got another
Skype call from my father.
And then he told us
that he was diagnosed
with an extremely aggressive cancer,
and he’s in hospital now,
and he asked us
to come back to Finland for a visit.
We had a beautiful ten days
together with my father.
Then, finally, he passed away.
Yeah, that was really
the lowest point in our life.
That came out of the blue;
we were not expecting it.
We had two widows to take care of.
So we were really wondering
if we could continue
in our assignment in Sierra Leone.
At that time,
one of our favorite scriptures was
Isaiah 30:15
that “your strength will be
in keeping calm and showing trust.”
And when we poured our hearts
to Jehovah in prayer,
we could see so well how Jehovah
helped us to stay calm
and have peace.
And we got some good advice here
from mature brothers
not to make any quick decisions.
So we put our trust in Jehovah,
and we could just see
that it was Jehovah’s will that we continue
in our assignment in Sierra Leone.
The fact is that, really,
the blessings always
surpass any of the challenges.
And we have come to love
our assignment in Sierra Leone.
Our brothers and sisters,
they are so faithful in Sierra Leone
despite their problems and challenges.
They give beautiful examples for us.
Being in a country where there is a lot
of potential, a lot of work, . . .
. . . you can have as many Bible studies
as you can conduct,
so it’s just a preaching paradise.
Going through these experiences,
we are so happy that Jehovah
is the Writer of our story.
And, for sure,
there’s a happy end.
If he wants to take you there, go there;
see what Jehovah
has in mind for you.
And then you can really
“taste and see that Jehovah is good.”